
Java


Class Level vs Instance level variables
Hashcode and equals contract
Why final classes are required
Core Java concepts
Data Structures
Hashmap, Internal working of Hashmap
Singleton class
Exception handling


1. Read employee information(empid, name, city) from file separated by comma.  Store these in sorted order based on emp ID and remove duplicates.
2. If i want to store Employee object as key to hashmap and override the values if emp id is same / already present in HashMap, what will be the hashcode
   and equals implementation for the same ?
3. Given an array of integers find all the pairs that make up a given sum
4. Give a list of apple objects - the list needs to be sorted as per its size, the list needs to be grouped by as per its color and then sorted as per price
5. Sort a stack using another stack
6. Create a Resource class and make it such that only one instance could b used
7. 

1. Lambda functions with examples between java versions
2. What is dependency injections in spring ?
3. Concept on explanation of overloading on equals() and hashcode()
4. Brute force logic
	Given a matrix with only 0's and 1's, where in each row, all 0's are before all 1's.  Find the row with max 0's.


1.Difference between abstract class and interface
2.java 8 features ? What is a Functional Interface? What is the advantage of functional interface ?
3.What are Automatic  and transient  variable in Java?
4.How many ways we can create thread in java and what are those ?
5.Print Even and Odd Numbers Using 2 Threads ? (  odd thread should print: 1,3 …, Even thread should print : 2,4,.. ,    O/P: 1,2 ,3 ,4,5)
6.What is synchronization ?
7.Difference between HashSet and HashTable ? 
8.HashMap internal implementation ?
9.When to use comparable and comparator ?
10.Write program to check if number is power of 10 or not ?
11.Hibernate advantages over JDBC ?
12.What is dialect in hibernate ?
13.Design patters used in your project ? Explain ?
14.Account (Saving,Current(with limit))  cash withdrawal database and Java  layer design approach(flow diagram).
15.When to use Abstract class and Interface.
16.Internal Implementation of Hash Set
17 problem : Find the 2 number that sum up to value 'k' in an array without any new variable declaration.
18.Time complexities of get and put methods of map.
19.Given a 2 dimension array like [{"name1",35},{"name2",40},{"name1",36}] find the student who has the highest average score.
20.Questions on java 8 Streams
21.Comparator and comparable

1) how to change the behaviour of the external jar class without affecting the existing behaviour for legacy classess?
2) How JVM recognises the exact database driver to make database connection?
3) write a standard  java code for jdbc connection polling?
4)  Given 2 integer array. first integer array gives the entry time to the conference metting, and the second integer array gives the exit time from the conference meeting. write a program to output the maximum number of people attended the conference.
5) given 2 array list, PersonalDetails (accountNumber : String , quantity : integer), and ConfidentialsDetails (accountNumber : String , accountName: String), write a program to find the total quantity from the PersonalDetails for the account present in the ConfidentialsDetails ?
6) Coding Test :  program to add 2 fractional numbers and return the results to check whether the test case has been passed or failed for given result.
7) How collection works internally
8) Hash code object ocpy


1.Difference between HashTable and HashMap.
2.Implement Arraylist using array.
3.Code for mirror of tree
4.Differnt ways of create thread.
5.what is Thread pool.
6.Program to print 1,2,3...20 using two thread one should print even number and another one odd.
7.How servlet works.
8.Algorithm to find panagram or not.
9.code for override hashcode() and equals() for given scenario.
10.fuctional interface sample implemetation and advantage.
11.Fill color to matrix by using x and y co-ordinate with some contraints.
12.Remove repeated element in the given string and return in sorted order.
13.Singleton design pattern implementaion.
15.connection node in two linkedlist with sapce complexity and timecomplexity.
16.How return object from thread.


1. Find out first non repeating char from a string
2. Find average marks of given students details 
3. Singleton design pattern
4. Internal working of concurrent hashmap
5. Find out how many time a given sub string is available in given string.
6. Comparable and comparator use with example
7. Write a sql to find out Max salary in particular department
8. Sql joins
9. Draw Tree using given data.
10. You have a 2*2 matrix with color and border of a circle you need to fill the circle with color 
    What is your approach for this.


1.
  String s1="Hello";
 String s2=new String("Hello");
String s3 = "Hello";
String s4 = new ("Hello-world");
How many object will creates in memory?
2. Diff Between abstract class & interface?
3. try{
	int a=10,b=0;
	Sop("Inside try");
	int x = a/b;
	}catch(Exception e){}
	catch(RunTimeException e){}
	finally{}
What will be the output?
4. Internal Working of HashMap? see LinkedHashMap also.
5. Waht are marker interfaces & its usecase?
6. Sort List of Students By name, after answering when to use Comparator & Comparable?
7. what is Serialization? & when to use volitle & transient keywords?
8. what are the ways of creating threads & threads life cycle?
9. Ecxeption & types of exception with Example?
10.  int arr[] = {1,1,2,3,3,4,5,2,1,1,4,4,3,2}  print only non consicuteve elements
   output array is : {1,2,3,4,5,2,1,4,3,2}

1. print fibonecci series & how to optimize it. if it recursive
2. how  Classloader loads class in JVM?
3. Featurs of JAVA 8? default methods, static methods, Functional interface, streams, lambda expretions ...etc
4.What design patterns u used in your project? explain Singalton
5. Diff between Spring & springboot? waht is IoC & DI (dependancy injection)
6.@Qualifier annotaion in spring?
7. Can we have multiple Configuration property files in springboot? yes but how?
8. How to connect  datasource in spring boot?
9. postgress is case sencitive or not? give with example?
10. Select name of employ & there managers name togethos

1. Do we need a separate thread for each servlet ?
2. Implement a stack using a array
3. Internal implementation of Hashmap & ConcurrentHashMap 
4. Diff between Set & List
5. Which one you would prefer Inheritence or Composition and why ?
6. Array sort with less time complexity
7. JDBC or Hibernet connection steps
8. Lazy or Eager loading in Hibernet

1. when to use abstract and interface class
2. what are the uses static block and static methods

3. What will be the output

String s1="Hello"
 String s2=new String("Hello");
if (s1 ==s2){
print(true);
} else{
print(false);
}
if (s2.equals(s1)){
print(true);
} else{
print(false);
}

4. What will be the output

Public static void main (){
if(true){
break;
}
}
5. Difference between arrays, arrayslist, linkedlist
6. Write code to get count of given number In an integer array
int[] a = [1,1,2,3,4,4,4]
7. Write code to get reverse of 123
8. Recursive method


1. Features of Java 8
2. Swap consecutive numbers in Linked List (Program)
3. Remove an element in the list when the no. is 5

1. What things do we need to keep in mind before using Employee (custom class) object as key to Hashmap ?
2. What is the significance of toString method ?
3. Datastructure using Arraylist
4. What happens if we have multiple catch blocks ?


1.	How is hashcode calculated for a key in HashMap ? 
2.	Which method gets called first when we put a new value to Hashmp – hashcode or equals ? 
3.	Which approach is better and why ? 
	Approach 1 : String str = “abc” ;
	Approach 2 : String str =  new String (“abc” );
4.	What are the OOPS principles you are familiar with 
5.	What are the access modifiers available in Java ? Please give me the order starting with the most restrictive 


SQL

15.	types of indexes ? why do we use indexes in sql
16.	What is trigger ? trigger creation syntax and advantage ?  
17.	Writing SQL Query with Joins. 
18.	How do you optimize complex SQL queries?
19. What are the point to consider if the query is delaying in fetching data from a table/s ?
20. Query to find the details of employee with Maximum total salary
21. What are constraints in sql





