Finalized
Hashtable
Parallel programming
Parallel streams
Find maximum in a list using Java 8
Streams
Find the count of a letter in stream
Stack memory and heap memory
Different objects adding in sets
How to commit two entities changes in springboot jpa

Design patterns 
Design Patterns with Examples in Java! 🚀

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/design-patterns-example-java-md-mohosin-miah-detpc?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_android&utm_campaign=share_via

How to have custom log template in springboot
https://bootcamptoprod.com/customizing-logging-format-spring-boot-application-properties-mdc/

Is array synchronous or non synchronous(its asynchronous)
What is volatile and transient,
How to make method threadsafe

Microservices architecture https://www.designgurus.io/blog/monolithic-service-oriented-microservice-architecture?gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAjwupGyBhBBEiwA0UcqaBGRVqf6XxTqLmpkIawanvx0X_2pG4XrEVxriayrrYSjVSlJba97ehoCaJoQAvD_BwE

What is terminal and intermediate operation
Is intermediate and terminal operation lazy or eager loading( terminal are eager and intermediate are lazy operations)
What are junit annotations
What is syntax for calling parent from child component 
What is thread poool and how it is created
What is spring security 
What is default server in springboot(Tomcat)
How to change default server (in the spring web starter package exclude the tomcat and in later dependency add the requreid server)
Maven commands 
Docker commands
Design pattern used in spring (Singleton)
What is spring mvc explain end to end 
How microservices communicate with each other
Different types of garbage collectors
Difference between JVM and JRE
What is concurrent hashmap
When to use list and when to use set
Arraylist and linkedlist when they can be used 
Life cycle of thread
What is functional interface and interface 
Why was default method added
What are actuators
What are the types of dependency injection 
Difference between controller and restcontroller
Why is qualifier used
What is the lifecycle of bean
What is restTemplate
High level Microservices architecture 
Perform join using crud operations
Procedures and functions in sql
Jdbc prepare and execute statement 
Class object and instance 
Classloader
Hashcode and equals contract 
Query to fetch the latest job time of each job
Flatmap and code for flat
when synchronous hashmap should be used and when concurrent hashmap should be used

write a code to sort the list in descending order using java 8
Find common names between two lists using streams
How to debug streams
How to autowire the interface that opens default implementation
Why is volatile used and difference between static and volatile and class variable
How are configuring the db using springboot
Can we catch multiple exception in a single catch block
Try with resources
Design patterns used(abstract pattern)
Solid design principles
Can we have multiple functions in functional interface( only one abstract and multiple default functions can be present even static methods can be present but static method cannot be overridden by the implementing class and default method can be overridden)

Can we have default and static method in functional interface
How to create primary key using the entity annotations in spring

Types of functional interface in java 8
Where lambda expressions are used?
How many threads will be given to parallel stream
What are Executors and what are thread executors
What is Rest API
Where transactions happen and how roll back and commit happen
Annotation used tp create the object multiple times
What service discovery have used
What authentication process have you used
Github related stuffs
Using streams find maximum salary from an employees object
Using streams remove the duplicate of list
What is hooks in angular
How is custom exceptional handling done

https://javaconceptoftheday.com/java-8-interview-sample-coding-questions/


Accenture questions:

Java 8 features
why pacakges are required in the java
package access,
differnece between springboot and spring framework
benefits of using springboot
how is stringpool created.
why are constrcutors used, what is contructor object?
what does the constrcutor return?
what are different type of constructors?
what is static variable?
can we override static method?
can we execute without using the main class?
what is this keyword?
what is pointers?
what is super keyword?
what is object cloning?
what is difference between equals and ==?
what is metadata of the springframework?
what is controller?
what is requestmapping?


Opentext questions:
what is garbage collection? in java how we can do garbage collection? what are the methods used for garbage collection?
at what point garbage collection is done?
what is JVM?
what is heap and stack memory?
internal working of HashMap?
if we have a mthod and we pass null to it what happens? will it take it as string or null?
in hashmap can we do modifcation while iterating?
when we are overide what exceptions can we throw?
what is restful services?
what is default scope of spring bean?
explain different type of design patterns?
what is factory design pattern?
in java script what is the valuse of 0==false?
what is promise in javascript?



Managerial questions
Why we should hire you?
What is your ambition?
Why your changing so frequently 


To get better at

Springdatajpa
Hibernate
Multithreading or threading or runnable
Microservices
Concurrent design

